Tea leaf diseases have had a substantial impact both 
on the quantity and quality of the tea produced. The high
precision automatic detection and identification of illnesses 
that can be found in tea leaves is beneficial to the accurate 
prevention and control of those diseases. Manual procedures, 
which require a lot of time and effort, are still the primary tool 
for diagnosing tea illnesses and determining the severity of 
their effects and also effect the agriculture. This situation has 
persisted for some time. It is helpful to the tea leaf disease 
prevention and control efforts to have accurate and speedy 
disease detection. This research presents a technique for tea 
leaf disease classification that is based on an improved version 
of a deep convolutional neural network. This project aims to 
develop a deep convolutional neural network model capable of 
identifying diseases affecting tea plants based on image sets of 
their leaves. The results of the studies indicate that the 
proposed method has an average identification accuracy of 
73%, which is higher than the accuracy of more conventional 
manual approaches. In later applications, the CNN model was 
utilized to improve the diagnostic measurement of tea leaves as 
well as the measurement of leaves from other plants. 

Tea is one of the popular and widely cultivated 
plantation crops in Tamil Nadu. Their productions are affected 
by different diseases that affect them. The quality of the tea 
leaves and bud needs to be monitored to increase the profit. In 
this paper a model is implemented using deep learning and 
machine learning techniques to detect the common diseases that 
affect the tea leaves and to classify the tea bud whether they are 
in the right stage to be plucked or not which signifies the high
quality and low-quality bud respectively. In this project two 
algorithms namely CNN and SVM are implemented using real 
time dataset. Since deep learning requires a large dataset for 
training. 1050 images for tea leaves disease detection and 262 
images for tea bud classification are collected in real time and 
augmentation on these images is carried out to increase the 
number of input images. In CNN Dense-Net Architecture 121 
and 201 are implemented for disease and bud classification 
which with deep convolution layers gives a high accuracy of 
96.703% and 96.923% respectively. In SVM the same 
convolution model is built and converted into an SVM kernel 
which gives better results than regular implementation with an 
accuracy as 65.934% and 73.077% for disease and bud 
classification respectively. Evaluation metrics such as 
Accuracy, Loss, Precision, Recall, F1 Score, Mean Square 
Error, Mean Absolute Error, Specificity and Sensitivity of the 
model were analyzed.